This package contains a new suspend script, designed for Software Suspend 2.

PREREQUISITES
-------------
You will require a kernel patched with Software Suspend 2 to use this script.
Patches are available from http://softwaresuspend.berlios.de/

INSTALLATION
------------
To install, simply run the install.sh script as root:

# ./install.sh
[...]

By default, this will install the following files and directories:

/usr/local/sbin/hibernate        <--- main executable script
/etc/hibernate/
/etc/hibernate/hibernate.conf    <--- main configuration file
/etc/hibernate/scriptlets.d/     <--- contains "scriptlets" (or plugins)
  and the various scriptlets that live in /etc/hibernate/scriptlets.d/
/usr/local/man/man8/hibernate.8
/usr/local/man/man5/hibernate.conf.5

If you already have a configuration file at /etc/hibernate/hibernate.conf, the
new configuation file will be installed at /etc/hibernate/hibernate.conf.dist
You will have to merge your changes manually.

CONFIGURATION
-------------
Since v0.90 of the suspend script, the configuration file syntax is completely
different (and much more readable!).

The default configuration does nothing but save and restore your clock. If you
have kernel modules that need to be unloaded, filesystems unmounted, network
interfaces brought down, etc, you will want to customise the configuration file
in /etc/hibernate/hibernate.conf. Run hibernate -h for help on the possible
options. There is also a man page for hibernate.conf as well as hibernate
itself.

RUNNING
-------
Simply calling "hibernate" as root will do everything mentioned in the
configuration file to suspend, and activate Software Suspend. Upon resuming,
any tasks for resuming the machine are run and the script exits.

If you want users other than root to be able to run the script, check out the
sudo package.

You may wish to call this script from acpid to allow you to press a button on
your machine to hibernate.

HELP
----
If you have problems with the suspend script or Software Suspend, the best
place to ask is on the mailing list - softwaresuspend-help@lists.berlios.de.
You will need to subscribe to post. See
http://softwaresuspend.berlios.de/lists.html for details.

If the suspend process itself crashes (while "Writing caches", "Reading
caches", or "Copying original kernel back", etc), then the problem lies with
Software Suspend 2 itself. See the FAQ at http://softwaresuspend.berlios.de/ for
help on debugging.

AUTHOR
------
This script was written by Bernard Blackham, with contributions from:
 - Carsten Rietzschel (modules, devices, bootsplash, lock and grub scriptlets.
   many ideas and bugfixes)
 - Cameron Patrick (sysfs_power_state, xscreensaver support for lock, many
   bugfixes and ideas, man pages and Debian packaging)
 - Kevin Fenzi (rpm packaging, ideas)

LICENSE
-------
Copyright (C) 2004 Bernard Blackham <bernard@blackham.com.au>

The hibernate-script package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

$Id$
